In order to run this project, type "cd final" into the terminal, and then when the header becomes "final/ $", type "flask run" and a screen that has a prompt for a login and username will appear. The idea behind our college match website is that the user will register (using the button at the top right) and create a profile with statistics that include their username, password, ACT, SAT, and GPA. The inclusion of SAT and ACT scores is optional, but the user must include a GPA. There are no bounds on the information that the user can include. This means that the user can enter any number for their SAT, ACT, and GPA scores. However, if the user inputs a GPA lower than 3.1, an ACT score less than 29, and an SAT score less than 1400, the college match function will tell them that 0% of the students in the data we collected have the same statistics as them. In order to get the best results, the user should input a GPA that goes to the hundreths place and does not end in a 0. For example, 3.99 is a more favorable GPA to input, and 3.6 is not based on the data that we are using. It is important to note that the data that we are using is not an accurate representation of the freshman class at Harvard.
After registering, the user will be brought to the homepage that shows the name of the website and what the purpose of the webpage is. The profile tab shows the user the information that they put in, and the update link at the bottom of the profile page allows the user to change any of the information they originally put in, with the requirement that they change their username. The matches tab shows the user the percentage of students in the Harvard data that have the same statistics as them. The about us tab gives informaiton about the creators of this webpage, and how this webpage came to be. The contact page provides the suer with an email to reach the creators of the website (it is not a real email), and also includes faux reviews about the webpage. We hope you enjoy using our College Match webpage!

Youtube Link: https://youtu.be/P_UEd_euJXU